---
layout: page
menu: plugins
title: "Question2Answer - Developers - Viewer Modules"
---

# Viewer Modules

[« Back to modules](/plugins/modules/)

A viewer module takes content stored in the database, as generated by an [editor module](/plugins/modules-editor/), and renders it for display by Q2A. The default viewer module in `qa-viewer-basic.php` takes care of rendering stored text or HTML, so you will only need to create a viewer module if you have an editor module which stores content in a different format.

The PHP `class` for a viewer module must contain the following functions (all are **required**):

- **`calc_quality($content, $format)`** should return a numerical value indicating your viewer's ability to render the supplied `$content` in `$format`, as retrieved from Q2A's database. You should return `1.0` to indicate perfect ability, and `0.0` for complete inability. For each piece of content, the viewer module returning the highest value will be used.

- **`get_html($content, $format, $options)`** should take the supplied `$content` in `$format` and render it as HTML with UTF-8 encoding. The `$options` parameter may contain some extra information about how the rendering should take place, although you can choose to ignore this if the module is only used on your own site:

    - If `$options['blockwordspreg']` is set, it contains a regular expression fragment which represents censored word patterns. You can pass it to `qa_block_words_match_all()` or `qa_block_words_replace()` in `qa-util-string.php` to retrieve or replace censored word matches in a target string. (You should not use this regular expression directly in `preg_*` functions since it makes some assumptions about word separators that Q2A's own functions take care of.)
    - If `$options['showurllinks']` is set and `true`, your viewer should detect URLs within the content and replace them with HTML links. The function `qa_html_convert_urls()`, defined in `qa-app-format.php`, might be helpful here.
    - If `$options['linksnewwindow']` is set and `true`, your viewer should open any links in a new window, i.e. use `TARGET="_blank"`. This applies to links detected by your module as well as any pre-existing in `$content`. The function `qa_sanitize_html()`, defined in `qa-base.php`, might be helpful here.

- **`get_text($content, $format, $options)`** should take the supplied `$content` in `$format` and render it as plain text with UTF-8 encoding. The text is primarily used in notification emails and for search indexing. `$options['blockwordspreg']` should be treated in the same way as for `get_html()`.

[« Back to modules](/plugins/modules/)
